---
layout: page
title: Contribute to freesewing
tags: [contributors]
permalink: /contribute
---
## Welcome

Hi there, 

Are you interested in contributing to freesewing? 
That's awesome, and exactly why we this thing is open source in the first place.

## Code of conduct

Freesewing strives to be an open and inclusive community.
To keep the trolls at bay, there's a [code of conduct](/about/code-of-conduct). 
and contributors are expected to uphold it.

## Where to get help or report a problem

- The [freesewing chat on Gitter](https://gitter.im/freesewing/freesewing) is the best place to ask questions, 
meet other freesewers, or just hang out and share a laugh.
- Chat not your thing? The [@freesewing_org](https://twitter.com/freesewing_org) 
Twitter account is the next best thing.
- Did you spot a mistake? Have a suggestion for an improvement? 
Please [file an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/freesewing/freesewing.github.io/issues/new). 
You'll need a GitHub account, but they are free.

## Ways to contribute

Whether you're a developer, a designer, a maker, or just a passer-by, 
there are lots of ways to contribute. Here are few ideas:

### For everyone

- Read through the documentation, and any time you see something confusing, 
or have a suggestion for something that could be improved, click the
 _improve this page_ link that you find at the very bottom of every page. 
- [Join the freesewing chat on Gitter](https://gitter.im/freesewing/freesewing) to talk to like-minded people with a love for sewing on a mission
to fix sewing patterns once and for all.

### For makers

- Make the patterns, and share your feedback
- Improve the pattern instructions
- Share your makes with the community, using the **#freesewing** hashtag
- Spread the word about freesewing: put a link on your blog, or write about your experience with the site

### For designers

- Host your designs on freesewing.org
- Port your existing designs to the freesewing platform (You can [get help with that](/contact))
- Build [your pattern business](/business) on the freesewing platform

### For developers

- Install freesewing on your computer and kick the tires. Does it work?
Does it what you'd expect? If not, [open an issue](https://github.com/freesewing/freesewing.github.io/issues/new) so it can get fixed.
- Comment on some of the [open issues](/issues). 
Have you experienced the same problem? Know a work around? 
- Hang out at [the freesewing chat on Gitter](https://gitter.im/freesewing/freesewing), and lend a hand answering questions. 
There's a good chance you've already experienced what another user is experiencing.
- Find an open issue (especially those labeled _help-wanted_), and submit a proposed fix. 
If it's your first pull request, relax, nobody will bite, and you're free to ask questions.
- Help evaluate open pull requests, by testing the changes locally and reviewing what's proposed.

## Submitting a pull request

- The smaller the proposed change, the better. If you'd like to propose two unrelated changes, submit two pull requests.
- The more information, the better. Make judicious use of the pull request body. 
Describe what changes were made, why you made them, and what impact they will have for users.
- Pull requests are easy and fun. If this is your first pull request, it may help to [understand GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/).
- If you're submitting a code contribution, be sure to read the [code contributions](#code-contributions) section below.

### Submitting a pull request via github.com

Many small changes can be made entirely through the github.com web interface.


1. Navigate to the file within [a repository](/docs/repositories) that you'd like to edit.
2. Click the pencil icon in the top right corner to edit the file
3. Make your proposed changes
4. Click _Propose file change_.
5. Click _Create pull request_.
6. Add a descriptive title and detailed description for your proposed change. The more information the better.
7. Click _Create pull request_.

That's it! You'll be automatically subscribed to receive updates as others review your proposed change and provide feedback.

## Proposing updates to the site/documentation

Thehe freesewing documentation aims to be the best it can be. 
All content is open-sourced and pull requests are welcome in case you find it lacking.

### Jekyll and markdown
This site is written in markdown and generated by Jekyll.
The [site markup page](/docs/site/markup) has an overview of most of the markup. 

### How to submit changes

You can find the freesewing website in [the site repository](https://github.com/freesewing/site). 
See the section above &mdash; [submitting a pull request](#submitting-a-pull-request) &mdash;
for information on how to propose a change.

## Code contributions

Interesting in submitting a pull request for our code? Awesome. Read on for a few things you should know.

### Coding standard and autoloading

Freesewing [core](https://github.com/freesewing/core) (and [data](https://github.com/freesewing/core) for that matter) uses the [PSR-2 coding standard](http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/), 
and the [PSR-4 autoloader](http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/). 

Please make sure to respect both the coding standard and the naming conventions of the autoloader. More details on the [naming conventions](/docs/naming-conventions) page.

### PHP 5.6 compatibility

While PHP7 is a lot faster and provides some cool new features, a lot of (shared) hosting
environments still ship with the PHP 5.6 branch.

To make deployment as easy as possible, the **freesewing core** codebase is kept compatible
with PHP5.6 and up.

This means you should refrain from using PHP7-only syntax until at some point in the future support for PHP5 is dropped.

### Unit tests

Freesewing uses PHPUnit for unit tests. The tests are located in the _tests_ folder of the core repository, and not yet written for the data repository (boo!).

For core, at the very least, you should run tests before and after your code changes to see
the impact. Preferably, your pull request will contain new/updated unit tests to test your code.

## Credits

This contributor documentation borrows heavily from 
[the Jekyll project](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/contributing/). Thanks guys.




* TOC - Do not remove this line
{:toc}

