pages/install.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Install instructions
tags: [fundamentals]
permalink: /install
---
Jump to the install instructions for:

- [core](#core)
- [docs](#docs)
- [demo](#demo)

Not sure what is what? Check the [repository overview](/repositories).

## core

> <h5 class="notoc">These instructions are for the public version</h5>
>
> The install instructions below are for the public releases of freesewing core.
> If you are trying to install from the private repository 
> (as in, we haven't released 1.0.0 yet) follow the 
> [Install from GitHub](#install-from-github) instructions below, but use this
> command to clone the repository: 
>
> `git clone git@github.com:joostdecock/fso.git freesewing`


### System requirements

- PHP version 5.6 or above (we recommend PHP 7)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)

### Installing composer

[Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) is required. If you don't have it yet, install it first.
For instructions, see [the composer installation page](https://getcomposer.org/download/)

### Installing core

#### Install from Packagist

Core is available on [packagist](https://packagist.org/)
 as [freesewing/core](https://packagist.org/packages/freesewing/core). 

Install it like this:

```
composer create-project freesewing/core freesewing
```

> <h5 class='notoc'>Contributors should install from GitHub</h5>
>
> Installing core from packagist won't allow you to submit your
> changes back to the repository. If you're looking to contribute
> to freesewing, you should install from GitHub as shown below.

#### Install from GitHub

The source code is hosted [on GitHub](https://github.com/freesewing/core).  
Clone it like this:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:freesewing/core.git freesewing
```

Then, let composer install the dependencies and update the autoloader:

```sh
composer install
```

### Update the autoloader

Once core is installed, you'll need to update its autoloader.
Composer will do that for you with this command:

```sh
composer dump-autoload -o
```

### Your first request

You now have core installed in the `freesewing` directory.
For testing, you can use PHP's build in webserver. Start it like this:

```sh
php -S localhost:8666 -t freesewing/
```

Then, connect your browser to 
[http://localhost:8666?service=info&format=html](http://localhost:8666?service=info&format=html).
You should see something like [this](https://api.freesewing.org/?service=info&format=html).

### Production use

PHP's built-in webserver is fine for testing, but if you want to really use freesewing, 
you should setup a webserver.

Doing so is beyond the scope of this document, but all you need is a webserver supporting
PHP. [Apache](https://httpd.apache.org/) and [Nginx](http://nginx.org/) are popular choices
and come with plenty of documentation.

### Running tests

To run the unit tests, you should be able to simply run:

```sh
phpunit
```

in your freesewing directory.

## docs

Our documentation is available on [docs.freesewing.org](https://docs.freesewing.org/).

If you want it locally, either for offline access or to contribute, follow these
instruction.

### System requirements

- [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com)
- [Html-Proofer](https://rubygems.org/gems/html-proofer/versions/3.4.0)

### Installing Jekyll

The freesewing documentation is a static HTML site generated by [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com).

If you don't have Jekyll on your system, please follow the 
[Jekyll install instructions](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/).

### Install from GitHub

With Jekyll setup, you can clone the docs repository from GitHub:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:freesewing/docs.git 
```

This will create the `docs` directory with our code inside.

### Generate the HTML
To browse the documentation, cd into the `docs` folder and 
enter the following command:

```
bundle exec jekyll build
```

The site will be generated in the `_site` subdirectory.

### Incremental builds

While you're making changes to the documentation, generating the site
every time you want to see the results is not very practical.

Instead, use this command to serve the site and have it auto-build
pages when you change them:

```
bundle exec jekyll serve --port 8000 --incremental
```

To run this in the background and silence the output, use this command:

```
bundle exec jekyll serve --port 8000 --incremental > /dev/null 2>&1 &
```

### Running Html-Proofer

If you'd like to submit your changes back to our repository, you 
should run the Html-Proofer to check for broken links.

Run this command to do so:

```
bundle exec htmlproofer _site --disable-external --assume-extension --file-ignore /apigen/
```

## demo

The [freesewing demo](/demo) is part of the documentation, and included in the docs repository. 
But that is a Jekyll-based site which means that running your own instance is going to require some work.

If you want your own demo without the hassle, follow these instructions.

### Install from GitHub

The source code is hosted [on GitHub](https://github.com/freesewing/demo).  
Clone it like this:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:freesewing/demo.git
```

This will create a demo folder.

### Configuring the demo

You should only configure the `api` value in the demo.js. 
The default value is:

```
var api = 'https://api.freesewing.org';
```

Update it with the link to your own freesewing instance (no trailing slash)
or leave it as-is to connect to our API.

Note that if you're connecting to our API, you could have just used 
[the online demo](/demo).

### Running the demo

Open `demo.html` in the `demo` folder in your browser.

* TOC - Do not remove this line
{:toc}

Commit message:

Added cli options and updated install info

pages/install.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Install instructions
tags: [fundamentals]
permalink: /install
---
Jump to the install instructions for:

- [core](#core)
- [docs](#docs)
- [demo](#demo)

Not sure what is what? Check the [repository overview](/repositories).

## core

> <h5 class="notoc">These instructions are for the public version</h5>
>
> The install instructions below are for the public releases of freesewing core.
> If you are trying to install from the private repository 
> (as in, we haven't released 1.0.0 yet) follow the 
> [Install from GitHub](#install-from-github) instructions below, but use this
> command to clone the repository: 
>
> `git clone git@github.com:joostdecock/fso.git freesewing`


### System requirements

- PHP version 5.6 or above (we recommend PHP 7)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)

### Installing composer

[Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) is required. If you don't have it yet, install it first.
For instructions, see [the composer installation page](https://getcomposer.org/download/)

### Installing core

#### Install from Packagist

Core is available on [packagist](https://packagist.org/)
 as [freesewing/core](https://packagist.org/packages/freesewing/core). 

Install it like this:

```
composer create-project freesewing/core freesewing
```

> <h5 class='notoc'>Contributors should install from GitHub</h5>
>
> Installing core from packagist won't allow you to submit your
> changes back to the repository. If you're looking to contribute
> to freesewing, you should install from GitHub as shown below.

#### Install from GitHub

The source code is hosted [on GitHub](https://github.com/freesewing/core).  
Clone it like this:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:freesewing/core.git freesewing
```

Then, let composer install the dependencies and update the autoloader:

```sh
composer install
```

### Update the autoloader

Once core is installed, you'll need to update its autoloader.
Composer will do that for you with this command:

```sh
composer dump-autoload -o
```

### Run it from the command line

```sh
./freesewing service=info format=text
```

If the command above outputs a nice list of API info, you have successfully install freesewing.

### Run it in a browser

While freesewing comes with a command line interface, it is typically ran on a webserver
so you can use it in your browser.

All you need is a webserver supporting PHP. 
Setting one up is beyond the scope of this document, but [Apache](https://httpd.apache.org/) 
and [Nginx](http://nginx.org/) are popular choices and come with plenty of documentation.

## docs

Our documentation is available on [docs.freesewing.org](https://docs.freesewing.org/).

If you want it locally, either for offline access or to contribute, follow these
instruction.

### System requirements

- [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com)
- [Html-Proofer](https://rubygems.org/gems/html-proofer/versions/3.4.0)

### Installing Jekyll

The freesewing documentation is a static HTML site generated by [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com).

If you don't have Jekyll on your system, please follow the 
[Jekyll install instructions](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/).

### Install from GitHub

With Jekyll setup, you can clone the docs repository from GitHub:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:freesewing/docs.git 
```

This will create the `docs` directory with our code inside.

### Generate the HTML
To browse the documentation, cd into the `docs` folder and 
enter the following command:

```
bundle exec jekyll build
```

The site will be generated in the `_site` subdirectory.

### Incremental builds

While you're making changes to the documentation, generating the site
every time you want to see the results is not very practical.

Instead, use this command to serve the site and have it auto-build
pages when you change them:

```
bundle exec jekyll serve --port 8000 --incremental
```

To run this in the background and silence the output, use this command:

```
bundle exec jekyll serve --port 8000 --incremental > /dev/null 2>&1 &
```

### Running Html-Proofer

If you'd like to submit your changes back to our repository, you 
should run the Html-Proofer to check for broken links.

Run this command to do so:

```
bundle exec htmlproofer _site --disable-external --assume-extension --file-ignore /apigen/
```

## demo

The [freesewing demo](/demo) is part of the documentation, and included in the docs repository. 
But that is a Jekyll-based site which means that running your own instance is going to require some work.

If you want your own demo without the hassle, follow these instructions.

### Install from GitHub

The source code is hosted [on GitHub](https://github.com/freesewing/demo).  
Clone it like this:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:freesewing/demo.git
```

This will create a demo folder.

### Configuring the demo

You should only configure the `api` value in the demo.js. 
The default value is:

```
var api = 'https://api.freesewing.org';
```

Update it with the link to your own freesewing instance (no trailing slash)
or leave it as-is to connect to our API.

Note that if you're connecting to our API, you could have just used 
[the online demo](/demo).

### Running the demo

Open `demo.html` in the `demo` folder in your browser.

* TOC - Do not remove this line
{:toc}
