pages/login-required.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Here's why you should (sign up and) login
permalink: /login-required
nocomments: true
---
> <h5>Life is better after login</h5>
> You probably ended up here because you tried to do something that needs you to login first.
>
> You can <a href="#burger">login now</a> and get back to what you were doing,
> or you can read below why you should log in.
{: .tip }

## No login, no patterns

If you want patterns, you have to login. 

Not because we are mean, or because we get something out of you signing up/logging in, but because of the way the software works.

We don't have a bunch of patterns you can download. Instead, each pattern is drafted to your specifications.

Your specifications means:

 - The pattern options of your choice
 - The measurements of the person for which you are making the garment. We call this the <b>model</b>

So, in order to get your hands on a pattern, you need to:

- <a href="#burger">Sign up</a>
- <a href="#burger">Login</a>
- Add a model
- Add measurements to that model
- Draft your pattern

So signing up/logging in is the first step. Without that, this site is just another blog.

## But I don't want to login

No problem, you can still [read our blog](/blog), check out our [showcases](/showcase), or
comb through our [documentation](/docs), but you can't draft any patterns.

* TOC - Do not remove this line
{:toc}

Commit message:

More login to log in fixes

pages/login-required.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Here's why you should (sign up and) log in
permalink: /login-required
nocomments: true
---
> <h5>Life is better after loggging in</h5>
> You probably ended up here because you tried to do something that needs you to log in first.
>
> You can <a href="#burger" class="login">log in now</a> and get back to what you were doing,
> or you can read below why you should log in.
{: .tip }

## No login, no patterns

If you want patterns, you have to log in. 

Not because we are mean, or because we get something out of you signing up/logging in, but because of the way the software works.

We don't have a bunch of patterns you can download. Instead, each pattern is drafted to your specifications.

Your specifications means:

 - The pattern options of your choice
 - The measurements of the person for which you are making the garment. We call this the <b>model</b>

So, in order to get your hands on a pattern, you need to:

- <a href="#burger" class="signup">Sign up</a>
- <a href="#burger" class="login">Log in</a>
- Add a model
- Add measurements to that model
- Draft your pattern

So signing up/logging in is the first step. Without that, this site is just another blog.

## But I don't want to log in

No problem, you can still [read our blog](/blog), check out our [showcases](/showcase), or
comb through our [documentation](/docs), but you can't draft any patterns.

* TOC - Do not remove this line
{:toc}
