pages/welcome.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Welcome
action: welcome
permalink: /welcome
---

> ##### You're in!
> Congratulations, you now have a freesewing account, and we've auto-magically logged you in.
{:.tip}

## First things first

### Please check your units

This website supports both metric and imperial units. Make sure to pick the correct units in 
[your account](/account).

### How about a cool username and picture?

You can change your username to anything you want in 
[your account](/account).

You can also pick a new profile picture there.

## The perks of having an account

Having an account unlocks extra functionality on this website. Once logged-in:

 - You can leave comments. Feel free to try it out at the bottom of this page.
 - You can add models (<a href="#" class="tour-guide" data-episode="model">find out how</a>)
 - You can draft patterns (<a href="#" class="tour-guide" data-episode="draft">find out how</a>)

## Where to go from here

### Create a model
If you're here for the patterns (most people are) the next thing you should do is create a model.

For that, go to [your models page](/models) and click the **Add model** button.

> <h5>Guide: Adding models and measurements</h5>
> Good news: we have a guide that shows you how to add a model and measurements.
> Click the button below to open it:
> 
> <a href="#" class="tour-guide btn btn-primary" data-episode="model">Adding models and measurements</a>
{:.tip}

### Add measurements
A model needs measurements. So the next thing to do is add measurements to the model you just created.

If you have a specific pattern in mind, you can add the measurements required for the pattern 
(filter them out with the drop-down above the measurements list).

> <h5>Guide: Adding models and measurements</h5>
> Good news: we have a guide that shows you how to add a model and measurements.
> Click the button below to open it:
> 
> <a href="#" class="tour-guide btn btn-primary" data-episode="model">Adding models and measurements</a>
{:.tip}

### Draft a pattern
Once your model has the required measurements, you can [create a new draft](/draft).

> <h5>Guide: Drafting a pattern</h5>
> Good news: we have a guide that shows you how to draft a pattern.
> Click the button below to open it:
> 
> <a href="#" class="tour-guide btn btn-primary" data-episode="draft">Drafting a pattern</a>
{:.tip}

* TOC - Do not remove this line
{:toc}

Commit message:

Added GitHub to social account, and social to welcome modal

pages/welcome.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Welcome
action: welcome
permalink: /welcome
---

> ##### You're in!
> Congratulations, you now have a freesewing account, and we've auto-magically logged you in.
{:.tip}

## First things first

### Please check your units

This website supports both metric and imperial units. Make sure to pick the correct units in 
[your account](/account).

### How about a cool username and picture?

You can change your username to anything you want in 
[your account](/account).

You can also pick a new profile picture there.

### Add your social media accounts

You can add your Twitter and/or Instagram username to 
[your account](/account)
so other users can discover more from you.

> ##### Your privacy is in good hands here
> [I care about your privacy](/blog/privacy-choices/), and the only reason
> this is here is because 
> [people asked for it](https://github.com/freesewing/site/issues/184).
{:.tip}

## The perks of having an account

Having an account unlocks extra functionality on this website. Once logged-in:

 - You can leave comments. Feel free to try it out at the bottom of this page.
 - You can add models (<a href="#" class="tour-guide" data-episode="model">find out how</a>)
 - You can draft patterns (<a href="#" class="tour-guide" data-episode="draft">find out how</a>)

## Where to go from here

### Create a model
If you're here for the patterns (most people are) the next thing you should do is create a model.

For that, go to [your models page](/models) and click the **Add model** button.

> <h5>Guide: Adding models and measurements</h5>
> Good news: we have a guide that shows you how to add a model and measurements.
> Click the button below to open it:
> 
> <a href="#" class="tour-guide btn btn-primary" data-episode="model">Adding models and measurements</a>
{:.tip}

### Add measurements
A model needs measurements. So the next thing to do is add measurements to the model you just created.

If you have a specific pattern in mind, you can add the measurements required for the pattern 
(filter them out with the drop-down above the measurements list).

> <h5>Guide: Adding models and measurements</h5>
> Good news: we have a guide that shows you how to add a model and measurements.
> Click the button below to open it:
> 
> <a href="#" class="tour-guide btn btn-primary" data-episode="model">Adding models and measurements</a>
{:.tip}

### Draft a pattern
Once your model has the required measurements, you can [create a new draft](/draft).

> <h5>Guide: Drafting a pattern</h5>
> Good news: we have a guide that shows you how to draft a pattern.
> Click the button below to open it:
> 
> <a href="#" class="tour-guide btn btn-primary" data-episode="draft">Drafting a pattern</a>
{:.tip}

* TOC - Do not remove this line
{:toc}
